You are watching a life-impacting message preached by Bishop Richard Iey.
Bishop Richard Iey is the pastor of the First Love Church London, a denomination founded by Bishop Dag Hewitt Mills.
The First Love Church is full of zealous young people who love and desire to work for the Lord.
You will be encouraged and uplifted as you listen to this powerful message.
Good afternoon and welcome to the best place to be on a Sunday, First Love Church.
I am so excited to be here today on the last Sunday of this year.
God has been so gracious to us and it truly has been our year of victories.
Today you can expect a life changing service as Bishop Richard preaches on the life changing word of God.
Without further ado, let's enter into today's service.
Somebody wants to make some noise.
Welcome to the faith encounter service.
I think it's a nice idea if you turn to your neighbor, you greet them, you say hello.
You're all looking very nice.
Don't think you've let your neighbor know though.
Tell them they look nice.
Tell the person behind you they also look nice.
And you can take your seats.
I have something lovely, something special in store for you.
It's testimony time.
Our first testimony comes from our sister, KD.
Oh, those scops screaming until she's here.
Come forward.
Tell us who you are and where you're from.
My name's KD.
I'm from the Middlesex Center.
And the Dancing Stars.
And what's your testimony about?
My testimony is about how God delivered me from fornication.
And tell us, how did it start?
So, I don't wanna cry.
So, when I was 14, I was sexually assaulted by a 23-year-old.
It ruined my life.
I don't wanna cry, sorry.
He abused me and exposed me to certain things that I shouldn't be exposed to at a young age.
It's very heartbreaking.
Yeah, so he would threaten me and hit me and abuse me.
And then I remember back in secondary school, I don't know who told who, but everyone found out and thought I had slept with him.
And everybody was calling me names, obviously, names.
Yeah, it was really bad.
And then after that, what did it lead to?
So I had to leave the country and that was, I said in my previous testimony that my dad has shipped me to Nigeria.
That was one of the reasons.
And then how did you find Christ from this?
Okay, so when I got back it got worse.
I would sleep around and that was the only
like thing I would do.
I had friends where we'll sleep with different boys and we'll talk about what has, what experience and everything.
And it was very, very demonic, fornication is a demonic thing, very, very spiritual.
Yeah, it was really, really bad.
It really ruined my life.
I didn't know about soul ties.
I didn't know about all these stuff.
And I'm just grateful because God has really shown me his grace, you know,
like not even being pregnant or having STDs.
So I'm just grateful for my life.
And then what would you like to advise the church?
Just when they say that no matter what you've done in the past, you're never too dirty to come to Christ.
I found a scripture.
For there are now no more condemnation for those who belong to Christ Jesus.
Yeah, so it doesn't matter what you're struggling with, just know that God loves you and He really does because He showed me His grace.
I mean, many girls who go through what I went through kill themselves and I'm here today.
I'm in first love.
I'm so grateful.
Put your hands together for KD.
You two remember that there's nothing that you've done that's too bad for God to receive you.
Would you like one more testimony?
Are you sure you'd like one more testimony?
Then let's put our hands together and welcome our brother Marcus.
Oh, keep clapping, keep clapping.
Oh, he's not on stage yet.
I think you should keep clapping.
Tell us who you are.
What's your name?
My name is Marcus.
And then what center you from?
I'm from South Bank Center.
And what ministry are you in?
I've just joined the choir.
And then what is your testimony about?
My testimony is about how I found God this year, how I found Christ this year.
rewind back to, I'd say, January.
So in January, I was in jail.
I was in prison for a pretty heavy, intense supply case.
I was looking at like three to six years, so it was quite hefty.
A lot of my friends went down as well, so it was quite a hard time.
So I was facing a trough and yeah it wasn't looking very good to be honest but I found Christ in prison which is weird.
It was good because I knew a few people in prison so God blessed me in that way.
So I knew people I could... You know while you were there what led you to finding Christ?
I had an older, his name is P.
I mean, he's still in prison now, but...
He came to you one day and he said that he had like a job.
Like, his job was to term it a crest.
So, from that day onwards, he just every day come to myself and he gave me a King James Bible, the new version.
Yeah.
And ever since he gave me that, I just felt a bit of hope.
And every night I used to read passages out of the King James Bible.
He used to highlight the most powerful verses and stuff.
He used to do that.
And then I'm coming up to my trial.
I was getting very anxious.
My barrister said I was looking at, say, four years.
The judge said three to six.
But yeah, I went in there and then the judge took one look at me and she just said,
We've already been aside for like seven months.
I don't think sending you back there is going to do you any justice.
So... And then...
When you came out, what happened?
Who did you meet?
And yes, it was very weird.
So she just said, I want to let you go.
And... Yeah, the whole courtroom was quite shocked, to be honest.
Like everyone was shocked, like those one uncle, one security guard next to me, just said, it's God, it's God, thank God.
So, yeah, they unhank off me and they let me out from the courts.
And yeah, it was very liberating, very liberating.
And from that day on, yeah, man, I've been following God.
My shepherd is right at the back, he's a Auschwitz, his name's Mark.
And what would you like to encourage the church by saying?
Must want to encourage the church by saying just that Jesus is the answer, isn't it?
Put your hands together for Marcus.
Remember Jesus is the answer.
Then I have another powerful ministration for you.
I want you to scream, I want you to shout.
And let's welcome the Dancing Stars.
I'm a winner, I'm a winner, I'm a winner Put your one hand up If you know say you cannot bestow I'm a winner, I'm a winner, I'm a winner Doesn't matter what the situation Good say or good tell you I'm a winner, I'm a winner, I'm a winner Break this both confession In the face of what I love I'm a winner, I'm a winner, I'm a winner
We will never leave all And I'm a noble calm I don't know what to feel at all Everything I do, every word I say Everything I touch, I trust that we know Everywhere I go, everywhere I am Everything I do, I trust that we know Nothing is impossible
I'm rain or shine I will be on top of I'm winning in the morning, winning in the afternoon or night My carp overflows with power in the name of Jesus
somebody ready for the word.
Oh, I thought you'd be screaming louder than that.
We're about to have our lives changed.
You'll never be the same again.
I want you to put your hands together with me as we welcome Bishop Richard.
Lift your two hands and let's pray.
blessing of being in your presence, the blessing of being in church for God.
Thank you for seeing us through another year Lord from January through to December Lord.
Thank you for 2019.
Thank you for the victories.
Thank you that you've been there.
You've kept us, you've preserved us.
You've given us life, faith, hope,
the end of the year to see the last Sunday of the year we are grateful Lord very grateful Lord so grateful Lord for life that you have given us and for the victories you've given us be blessed be praised be exalted you alone deserve the thank you Lord we say thank you to you you alone deserve the glory we give you the glory we give you the praise we adore you Lord
And we say thank you, thank you, thank you Father for today Lord.
Thank you for another service Lord.
Let your spirit be made manifest amongst us.
Let your power be here Lord.
Thank you O God for healing our hearts, healing our minds, saving our souls O God.
Thank you for salvation.
Thank you for miracles today.
I give you thanks.
I give you praise.
and I said thank you father once again for 2019 Lord.
You've been good and you've been faithful to us.
I give you praise in Christ Jesus name I pray and everybody said Amen.
Amen.
Beautiful.
God bless you.
Take your seats and welcome to the last
19.
Hallelujah.
Wow.
Soon it will be 2020, isn't it?
You will be there on the last Sunday of 2020 as well.
You will be praising God.
You will have more reasons to even dance in 2020.
Next year by this time, you will have many reasons to dance, to jump, to celebrate.
God will come through for you.
Amen.
He will come through for you.
At the end of the service, Masala will sing a song for you.
He came through for us.
He will sing that song for you.
It's a prophecy to you.
Yes, that Jesus will come through for you.
Amen.
In 2020, hallelujah.
How many of you have been blessed in 2019?
How many of you have experienced victories?
Victories.
It means that you've seen battles.
Do you know that?
If you've seen victory means you've seen a battle.
Yes, when the year begins, a series of victories, you didn't analyze it well.
You didn't know that a victory comes, battles comes before victories.
Some of you have seen victories, victories, victories, because you've seen battles, haven't you?
You've won all the battles.
You will see greater victories in 2020.
Hallelujah.
Take your seat.
Well,
This service is also our thanksgiving service.
Thanking God for seeing us through to the end of the year.
And I believe that it's a great blessing to see another year end.
Especially when you know people who didn't see the year end.
And you have seen the year.
How many of you know someone who didn't finish?
Yes.
Though they're in a better place, but they didn't finish, didn't they?
And you have, I mean, hopefully in a better place, hopefully, you may never know limited.
Yes.
What is important is that you must be saved.
When you are saved, then we can say that you're in a better place.
The most difficult thing is to attend the funeral of an un-saved person.
You don't even know what to say.
Or to try comforting family of someone
who was not saved.
You don't even know what to say.
As you are saying, sorry, you know that.
Look.
As you are saying, be encouraged.
You can't even say rest in peace.
Because you know the person is not rested.
If you believe in your Bible, do you believe in your Bible?
Yes.
If you believe in your Bible, you know the person is not rested.
There is no rest without salvation.
The soul is not rested.
soul is struggling somewhere but well, here we are.
We have seen, you know, any, any extra day that you see is a message of God.
It's a message of God to be able to correct what you have been corrected and to do what you haven't done.
So, as you've seen 29th December
And then you will see 30th, isn't it?
And then we are believing God that will see 31st.
And then we will even see what night service.
And then we will pray into the new year.
How many of you are planning to pray into the new year?
Yes, I have to pray into the new year.
And you know, 2020, I want you to be wise to give yourself a head start.
So start the year.
We'll be giving you details of what we'll be doing soon.
But right from 1st January, I want you to give yourself a good spiritual head start.
Do you know head start?
Yes.
Start ahead of everybody.
Start with serious prayers, serious prayers.
and long prayers.
Don't be relaxed.
You see, the average student is the person who does things.
Averagely.
Averagely, you do things.
The person who is above average has an extra chip that he's using.
You see, whilst everybody is saying Christmas, they are sleeping, that person is not just eating and sleeping.
The person is not, in other words, what I'm saying, in other words, that person is not switched off.
It's not switched off.
When you see people who are switched off, you can tell, you can tell a switch off person by the result a person has in anything that the person is doing.
You're that this person switched off.
But people who are above average don't live a switched off life even when people are switching off.
They even pretend as though they are switched off, but they're not switched off.
So I'm saying to you as we are entering 2020, don't be a switched off person.
Especially when everybody is switched off.
Or when it feels like this is the time to switch off.
Never switch, it's Christmas.
Why didn't you pray because it's Christmas Day?
Isn't it not rather the day that your savior was born?
Should you not rather be thanking
be thanking God and celebrating the birth of your savior, your savior.
Why would you switch off?
Why would you put your hope in turkeys?
And dead ones.
If it was an alive turkey, would you understand?
A dead turkey.
As you are eating the turkey, you shouldn't switch off.
Don't let switched off lives.
Because you can always tell from the results and what comes out that this person has taken his eye off the ball.
Do you understand eye off the ball?
Yeah, you shouldn't take your eye off the ball.
Many sports, many sports, one of the basic things you'll tell you, or one of the basic things that they have is eye on the ball.
Eye on the ball, many sports, many, many sports that involves a ball.
Because you can't kick well if your eye is off the ball.
You can't switch off.
You can't, you can't, you can't hit your target if your eye is off the ball.
So just the eye on the ball, eye on the ball, eye on the ball, keep your eye on the ball.
If you keep your eye on the ball, you have a good hit, you have a good strike.
So 2020, eye on the ball.
Keep your eye on the ball.
And you see, in the, in the, it, it didn't happen.
I think that didn't happen in ministries, in churches.
When a church takes its eyes off the ball.
You see, but when you take your eye off what is important and what is relevant, it's not as though you are staring into space.
You are staring at something that you think is perhaps you think it's equally important.
But nothing is as important as what is important.
You understand?
Should I say that again?
Nothing, nothing, nothing in your life.
is as important as what is supposed to be important.
In other words, in other words, the main thing is always the main thing.
No matter what happens around you or goes on in your life, the main thing is always the main thing and will always be the main thing.
You see, I'll give, I'll like to give, I'll like to give, permit me to use church, church.
as an example.
It's very, because you would think that in a church where good things are being done, especially charitable things, you would think that you can't go off.
You can't enter into error.
You can't get into the, if like the wrong thing.
But you can, is this stray away from doing the right thing and staying with the right thing?
And what is the main, what is the main thing in a church?
The main thing in the church is soul women.
It's not, it's not forming, it's not forming a club for single women or single mothers.
Maybe not single, single mothers.
I remember a church member coming to me and saying that she's leaving the church because we don't give much attention to single mothers.
And I thought, oh why?
I've never had this problem before.
I said to her, I've heard of other criticisms criticizing that the pastor is like this, the pastor is like that, but I was telling her, look, my sister, this one is new to me, it's new.
I mean, you've really brought a problem I've not seen before.
That, I mean, we don't intend to, we don't intend single mothers.
So she had thought about it and I said, yes, I mean, single mothers, single mothers will have, a single mother would have a unique challenge.
A challenge will be very unique to her.
And there are a lot of single mothers now.
A lot of single.
I'm sure a lot of us were brought up by a mother, isn't it?
Yes, who is single?
Yes, but you see, as much as it's a relevant point, I mean, a single mother would like counseling, care.
You know, what she was asking for is that, you see, like we have choir, dancing stars, which you also have like single mothers.
ministry.
I don't know why you are laughing.
I mean, I wish you were there so you would have laughed so you would see that what she says because I didn't laugh.
I was just I was shocked.
But understood how a church, you know, can drop the main thing and perhaps many other things and follow and follow
which has become so common that there's enough pressure to create that group and to have, and to say that we, we, can you imagine that by the time you met me, he said, oh this pastor, he's really into single mothers.
So my church is full of, I've been a lot of single mothers who like me.
I mean, don't really like me.
I mean, and they are souls, why not?
Just don't really like me.
Don't come to the church, because all my messages will be tailored towards the,
the survival of a single mother.
Seven steps to be a successful single mother.
Eight reasons.
Eight reasons why you must not give up your faith if you're a single mother.
Understanding single mothers in the 20th, 21st century.
Single mothers in ministry.
Single mothers in business.
Single mothers in childcare.
seven ways, seven ways to raise a child if you're a single mother.
All these things will be found in the Bible.
I'm telling you, all these things will be found in the Bible.
It will just be custom made.
But it is not the main thing.
It's not the main thing.
And I wouldn't criticize someone who majors in...
I would not open my mouth to say anything, except that I would know that this is not the main reason why Jesus died on the cross.
This is not the main reason.
Because you see different places, you see that different slants to every church, it's called emphasis.
It's that the emphasis is there, the emphasis.
But there must be only one emphasis in the church.
which is a salvation of souls, which is John 3.16, for God so loved the world.
So when you're in a place and you see that the empire, somebody also came to me, another, this was my first shock visit.
My next shock visit was when I met, and these ones were young, they were young, I think they were, I don't think they were serious because
They chose an unfortunate thing to criticize.
They said, in the church, we talk too much about soul winning.
What is that?
You see, so I said, you know, if you have decided to backslide, go quietly.
Don't announce it.
Just go quietly.
When you finish your backsliding, just come back.
The ashes will be here to give you a seat.
Just come back.
You see, when you are backsliding, don't talk when you are backsliding.
Do you understand?
I'm giving you good advice.
God forbid that you would backslide.
Yes, but should increase in the event, in the unlikely event.
Yes.
In the unlikely event.
Yes, yes.
Where you find yourself slipping away from what you are now.
Don't talk.
Don't talk because you are always welcome when you recover.
Don't say anything.
Just go quietly and then come back quietly.
When you come back, you come back a lot because you need to give a testimony.
So you have to come back.
That when I went, I mean, you know, it wasn't easy and this and that.
You need to come back.
So you can't come back quietly.
You have to come and share your testimony.
Yes.
We need you to come and share the testimony.
So those who are planning to backslide would see that, ah, he's been there already.
It's been there already.
That sometimes I meet people who say they're going to study certain courses.
I tell them never.
Don't do this course.
Why?
Because I've seen others who have done that course end.
They're all unemployed.
And there's, and there's, and there's something, there's something they are told when they're going to do that course.
And when you finish it, you will do this other course that we all know that that's what you originally wanted to do.
But that particular course doesn't lead to that course.
It doesn't lead there.
It's just someone, it's just someone's business idea or whatever has created a course and is just collecting people's whatever he's collecting.
No.
So anyway, I was saying that your testimony, your testimony will help so that someone will learn that what he's doing doesn't lead to happiness.
So you have to come back quickly and when you are sharing, you have to share your testimony properly.
You have to say it properly and clearly so we'll understand what you are saying.
Isn't it?
You would like to understand testimony, isn't it?
So, well, so I'm saying to us therefore that the main thing, the main thing is always the ending Christianity, church, when you say church, the reason why all of you are here, in all of you, my interest in all of you here, number one, of course I have interest in other things, your health, your academic work, your career, I may have interest, I may have interest, I can talk to you all day or night about all these areas, what you should do, what you should study,
where you should work, where you shouldn't work, where you shouldn't work for long.
If someone sent me a message recently about something, I'm sure he was surprised at my response.
But I said, look, get a good job, okay?
Get a good job and work.
I didn't even ask him, have you prayed this morning?
I just said, get a good job.
Because the thing that the message that he has said is almost like something that we call for like celebration.
We're all happy.
It's not the end of the journey.
At all.
We can't stop here and start dancing.
Get a job.
To the job.
to the job, get a job.
I'm waiting for his, that's the message I'm waiting to hear from him about that.
I've got a job in this place.
Then I'll say, aha, I come for a hug.
But as for now, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Don't even talk to me.
Don't even talk.
So I'm just saying that,
Yes, there are other things that we are interested in.
I'm interested in your marriage.
In 2020, there should be a lot of weddings.
A lot of weddings.
Yay.
I want to officiate several weddings in 2020.
Yes.
Weddings.
I want to stand and say, hey, now the weddings are a lot.
Yes.
It's one of my desires.
I want to say, hey, the weddings are now every Saturday.
Now, can't even have a prayer meeting on Saturday.
I can't have any meetings because people's weddings, people's weddings, it will be your wedding.
Yes, attend your weddings.
And then every Sunday I come to church, there will be baby dedication.
I'll say, hey, these people, when they marry, they stop praying, you know.
What have they been doing?
Only babies.
All these things are there.
They are beautiful things.
They are nice things that will happen to us, that will experience, that we are going to experience.
But I want to say to us that the main thing is always the main thing, which is the salvation of souls.
Salvation of souls.
Salvation.
We shouldn't stray from it.
You shouldn't stray from it.
You shouldn't defeat from it.
What you didn't feel is not important.
It is the most important thing that a church can discuss.
I don't have a single mother's unit.
You can have what do you call it?
What?
I mean, there are different groups we can create.
A major on it.
have a X X convex unit recovering this.
I mean, they're different.
There's so many things.
But you see, rather, even if I have it, you will see that when I meet them, I'll ask them, how many single mothers have you won for Jesus?
Yes.
You must be producing after your kind.
How many of them have you turned to Christ?
How many of you tend to Christ?
They're coming to show you seven ways by which single mothers can be mothered.
No.
How many are after us?
How many?
How many single mothers?
Because when God was creating the world, when He created it, He said that this is good.
And then He said, they should reproduce after their kind.
Produce after your kind.
Everybody is expected to produce after your kind.
After your kind.
Because there's a kind.
Everybody has a kind.
Yes.
It's true.
Have you seen your kind in the church?
Have you reproduced after your kind?
If you wear glasses, how many people have you brought to Christ who wears glasses?
tell us that we've chosen her to do announcements because she is what?
Her mouth like color blue.
She doesn't want to do it, she should leave it.
Why is she worrying us?
Her mouth like color yellow.
So anyway, today I have a brief exhortation for you.
Yes.
It's Christmas season, so short messages.
And then we are thanking God.
Are we thanking God for?
Yes.
So, I have three openings.
Three openings.
You know, I was once listening to
I want you to turn your Bibles to two openings.
We are dealing with two openings.
I remember those I say to myself, I'm waiting for a day where I'm going to preach as well.
And I'll say to them, I want you to turn your Bibles to two openings.
So today I've got a chance.
And I don't have two openings.
I have three openings.
Three openings.
Yes.
You also be there.
What you gather, you also say that you heard somebody say three, that you to your say to the four openings.
So, three openings.
You see, it's what he's going to preach about prayer.
He has, I think, John 15, 7, and then Ephesians 6, 18, I think, yes.
He uses this to, so we say two openings.
Let's turn it back to the opening, two openings, two openings.
As is introductory verse, two openings.
So I said, how many openings?
Three openings.
Are you ready for the three openings?
Habakkuk chapter two.
Habakkuk chapter two, verse number four.
Behold, his soul, which is lifted up, it's not upright in him, but the just,
shall live by his faith.
Try Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 38.
Hebrews 10, 38.
Are you there?
Yes.
Are you sure?
Are you sure you can see it?
Yes.
Wow.
It says that now the just shall live by faith, by if any man draw back
my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
Then the third opening is Galatians chapter three and verse number eleven.
It says that but that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God.
It is evident for it is evident for the
shall live by faith.
Can I say I've given you three passages that says that the just shall live by faith.
The title of my message today is your faith is your life.
Your faith is your life.
Yes, your faith is your life.
If you want to see your life or the life that you are living, check what you have faith in.
I can give you, I can give you for good measure, free, free one.
I'll give you another, another one.
Romans chapter one.
Verse 17.
It says that for therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith as it is written, the just shall live by faith.
So I've given you four, four free openings.
Let's say the just shall live
by faith because your faith is your life.
Your faith is your life.
Everybody's life is made up of his faith.
In other words, what you believe in is what you do.
Nobody does what he doesn't believe in.
Your faith is your life.
What you are doing, what you are passionate about, what you are passionate about, your passions, your strength, your energy, your life is your faith.
It's your faith.
Because it's easy, it's easy to attempt to say that.
You know, I was, when I came earlier,
I was looking at the worship stars on stage, and I remembered three or four gentlemen that I put in the worship stars, and they were not there.
And I was thinking to myself, if I meet these three guys, they'll tell me stories.
They'll give me a skin, they'll tell me cock and bull stories, you know?
And I was thinking to myself, the old thing, like, I'm a child, and I don't even know why I asked them to go there.
you see but they have demonstrated disobedience because because faith is obedience and obedience is faith so this this like this like a harmless a harmless little insignificant it almost I mean in terms of worship stars their presence there will make no difference the only thing it will do is that we believe in something
We believe in something and we believe we believe that we believe that he had a good reason why he said we should go and go and join them.
But their absence and continuous absence demonstrates that no, we don't believe in such nonsense.
They may not use their word nonsense, but that's what it's like.
Forget it.
No, no, no, no.
We don't even have time for such things.
It's not easy when things are spelled out to you, isn't it?
Yeah, but that's what it means.
So I was telling you, the first thing that occurred to me, I looked up, I don't know for some reason, for the first time, I don't really look out for them.
But for the first time, I looked out for them.
I said, no, they are not here.
And I cast my mind, I said, no, no, no, they are not.
They are not even interested.
But when I meet them, they will smile and tell me, oh, be sharp.
Oh, be sharp.
believe it.
But they don't have faith for for the extraction that they have been given.
They don't even believe it.
Nobody does.
Nobody does anything that they don't believe in.
Even if you don't believe in your dream, it means that you have even a little a drop of believing that it's okay for the sake of whatever, you know, but like but when you say complete no
You two have even consideration for that thing.
It's like that thing is of no use and of no essence.
It's like asking me to eat what?
I don't know.
The few ones I went for.
They named a friend of mine, not in this church, a friend, an old schoolmate.
I had a baby, his first baby.
It's about 27 years ago.
Yes, he's had a baby.
So I remember I went to the house with, it was like an outdoor ceremony, naming ceremony.
So I was with my wife who went there.
They were sharing.
It's like when you come, in the tradition demands that you be given alcohol.
It's in the glass.
You sip, then you pass.
It's like a welcome thing.
So you sip.
You know, do you know, what's it called?
Gin, the white one.
It's a white one, gin.
Okay.
I don't know why I'm asking you, but I'm sorry.
Gin.
If life, you have friends who can help you preach and say different things.
What's your problem?
Do you want to preach?
You don't have a friend who can help you.
The white one is Jen, isn't it?
But you know, isn't it?
The white one.
It's like a spirit.
It could be vodka too.
It could be vodka.
Okay, vodka and Jen are both white.
They are both white, okay.
But they are both spirits.
Okay, spirits.
Okay.
Anyway, so I remember a glass.
I mean, they just don't serve it like full glass, isn't it?
It will kill you.
50 what?
50 milliliters.
But 50 milliliters is very small.
Yes, okay.
So in the glass it was small, tiny, at the bottom of the glass like that.
And I remember it was brought to me and I was sitting there.
I was thinking to myself, Pastor Richard,
I was, I was thinking to myself, I mean, I don't believe in this.
I mean, what, what, what use is it to me?
And I was thinking my friend and his family and friends that are here.
I mean, what do I owe them to try and act as though I'm okay with it?
I will take a, I said, should I give it to me?
I, I said, I said no.
I don't remember.
My friend said, oh no, it's this tradition.
I said, look, I said, I said, my brother, my brother, this is not a tradition that I follow.
I've come from far to come and see your first child.
Please.
I said, even the glass, I'll not even touch it.
I don't even touch the glass to even pretend that I've received it.
I don't know what I don't know in in in this bogus tradition.
I don't know what it means.
But the tradition is a bogus tradition.
They have to say and pass it on.
Say I have to say I have to pass it on to my wife.
That's it.
She'll say hey.
But then we'll be singing on the way.
I'm sure we'll start singing on the train.
I'm sure from her background she'll be singing hymns.
She'll be singing when peace like a river.
And I'll be singing dance to the music.
Music makes you happy.
Dance to party music.
And she be singing when peace like a river.
Are you here?
You've traveled.
But I'm saying that
So you see, I'm saying that the way I, if you like, ravished that tradition, that is how these young boys have ravished my instruction.
Yes.
And I'm using to explain to you what we believe in.
One of the lowest ways of discovery, what someone believes in.
What someone believes in.
It's very easy for someone to say to you that, oh, you're my pastor, you're like a father to me, anything.
But it's not by singing.
The only way you will see this is by if the person will do what you say.
I mean, how can my child in my house tell me what he wants to do?
I mean, how?
How?
I can't even imagine it.
I mean, by the grace of God, he won't.
I can't even figure it out.
Because it wouldn't be prayer that they wouldn't be prayer.
I don't know what you're thinking about, but it wouldn't be that either.
I actually don't know what I mean.
It shouldn't happen.
I will just open the front door.
Just look in the front door.
Do you know better than me?
Let's compete.
Yes.
Start what I've also started.
And let's see how far we'll get.
I also left my parents home and I went to rent a home.
I went to rent a home and I went inside.
You don't understand my point.
Yes.
My instructions are nonsense in the house now.
How if they say don't call me daddy?
Call me Richard.
Or call me Richie Rich.
Yes.
Only Richie Rich.
ask what what what did you do your shopping so we can meet in the shops whilst your shopping will be discussing will be discussing politics and the and the economy yes we can be there you put this I also put it when we get to the till don't don't don't look at me that I'll take out my card and pay for you but it's very easy for someone to say oh yeah you're my this you're my that you're my that but when it gets to when it gets to
practicing what we are saying.
It means something else.
It's like you might as well call the person Mickey Mouse or Donald Duck.
Your faith is your life.
That's the topic.
What you are practicing is who you are.
your whole life is defined by your faith.
What you believe in, what you believe, what you believe in is who you are.
It's your life.
It is, it's not, it's going to become your life.
So in other words, as you are sitting here looking at me, what you've been doing is your faith.
That's what I mean.
Your faith and your faith level, you see, it says here, this verse is actually very interesting.
For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith.
faith.
From faith to faith.
We see, we see different levels of faith.
As people live and and they follow God.
I mean, there are people, there are people who are, they're Christians alright.
They're Christians alright.
They're born again.
They're saved.
Blood washed.
Christians alright.
But they've thrown everything, everything into business.
offering once in a while every night.
It's almost like God's like someone that they give a tip to.
They give God tips, you know.
But that's what I'm saying is that that's the person's faith.
Because that's the person's life.
It's like I'm in church every every time.
God, I believe God.
The person believe God has blessed him.
God has kept him.
God has given him a good job.
God has given me a good church.
God has given him a good pastor.
But doesn't think that doesn't think that he owes any thanks or appreciation or should demonstrate.
I mean, it's like he's not that involved.
He's like, no, I can't be that involved.
I'm involved.
I'm getting involved in church to a certain level.
It's like a waste of time.
So there's more involvement in his
faith.
That's where his faith is.
God, when he said, that's where he said, that's where he believes sustains him.
There's another person.
There's another type of person.
Also, same Christian born again, saved in the church, moving around, good business, good job, whatever you you want to call it.
But we'll pay type every every every every time he has to pay
is that his faith level is higher than the first person.
The first person gives God tips.
Tips.
Have you given someone a tip before?
Yes.
Yeah.
When I go to restaurants, I don't always follow 10%.
I give tips to the people who work there based on their performance.
Yes.
Yeah.
I look careful.
I say, no, no, today you will not get anything.
You don't get anything.
You don't get anything after all.
You've been very, very, very horrible.
You don't get anything.
Give me my change.
Give it to me.
So you say, I can understand people who give God texts.
Because they don't feel they owe anything to God.
Like I don't feel like I owe anything to a cab driver or what do you call those who work in restaurants?
Waiters, yes.
I don't feel like I owe them.
But sometimes you see all this person deserves a tip.
You need to give this person a tip.
Sometimes even air hostesses and air stewards.
Sometimes everyone I'm even getting off.
I don't even look at them.
because they've been horrible throughout.
Yes.
Sometimes I chat with them.
Chat with them, nice, we chat, discuss, whatever talk you're getting of them and say, thank you very much.
There is, okay, it's supposed to have a good trip, have a festival.
But some of them, especially doesn't deserve, doesn't even deserve eye contact.
Eye contact.
Especially setting airlines.
on a certain continent.
That begins with one of the alphabets.
That one, that one.
Because they are very mean.
Very, very mean.
Even a can of coke.
They will not like to give you.
Can of coke.
Even when they are giving you what you are doing.
When they are serving.
The way they will even give it to you.
like they're step child.
It's a get.
Don't know if you put it down.
It's like in your heart.
Take.
You know them, isn't it?
You know what I'm talking about.
Okay.
Yes.
You've also been there.
Me too have been there.
Very, very, very some way people.
And they are older too.
I don't know why they employ older people.
Hmm.
them there is somebody.
Doesn't give tips.
Doesn't just give tithe regularly.
But you see that has given his life.
His life.
He's giving his life to the ministry.
As though, when you say as though the church belongs to him.
You, you, you would even be surprised to discover that this
It has a life and it's not paid by the church.
You'll be surprised.
This person is not paid by the church.
It doesn't end in it.
But the person has a life.
But the level of faith that the person has is that look, I need to give everything that I have to God.
I mean, if it's God's house, my intelligence, my time, my money, my energy must be applied to God's house.
So, you see, when you see such a person, what you are looking at is the person's faith.
The person's faith in God, the person's faith, the other people, they are not, they are not evil people.
But they don't have as much faith in God.
That God can preserve, God can sustain, God can keep, God can look after, God can, they don't, they don't really attribute a lot of things to God.
They don't attribute a lot.
They attribute some things to God, but they believe more than
God, if you're going to follow him, you come to shame or some things won't work out in your life.
So, you have to sort yourself out.
You have to really, you have to really, if you don't sort yourself out and don't look after yourself, you won't get some things done.
They don't believe in Matthew 6.33.
So, God is not fast in there.
God is like faith or tenth.
Yes, it's like when you have everything and you've done everything, you can give God something.
That's the tip.
When they regularize tithing, then the tips are more often and regular.
But themselves, life, time.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
God, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
I'm just explaining our lives to us.
But your life is your faith.
It's not the beautiful topic.
Your life is your faith.
I'm just explaining how we live.
We all, all of us, all of us, I can go, I can go to midnight and give you different examples of how everybody lives.
And you will see that everybody has a certain amount of faith.
Yes.
Is it sick if there's a kingdom of God?
God.
Siki first, the kingdom of God.
The word first is a word proton.
Yeah.
That is number one in your life.
God.
God number one.
I had a preacher, a preacher preaching ones.
It's a preacher preachers.
So, I had a preacher speaking ones.
He said that when he was growing up, he was taught that number one,
your wife or something like that.
Number three, I think.
Family.
Something like that.
Then number four, ministry.
So, it's like he has grown up to believe it.
Now, look.
Number one, God.
But, but you know, you know, he's teaching.
Do you know what he's pointing out?
That there's a mistake.
There's a mistake.
You see, look at the
and second this and third.
No, it's like it's like seek.
It's like make God the primary paramount thing in your life.
That's what he's saying.
It's not it's not saying that rank rank God number one and rank other things number two, number three, number four.
So anyway, let me finish telling you what the preacher was saying.
So, he said he said that as he has grown, he said he has grown up.
He's he's he's seen things in life.
He's been beaten by life.
Life has really beaten him.
Yes.
He said, now, if you ask him, he will tell you number one, God.
Number two, God.
Number three, God.
Number four, God.
He said, he mentioned in the number, he's God.
He's God.
Because without God, without God, how do you have family?
God.
Without God, how do you have wife?
Without God, without God, how do you have ministry?
So, he said for him now, so you see, you see, what, what I will say that he was saying is that he used to have a lower, a lower level of faith.
Now, his faith level has increased because now he's explaining his same life.
He said, look, about twenty, it's about twenty, thirty years ago, if you ask him, he'll say
either wife or family one.
I don't know whether both were the same.
Two wife.
You know this marriage thing?
Yes.
It's like marriage.
It's like marriage or your failure?
Yeah.
It's like if your marriage is not working, you are failed in life.
Pastor was asking me a few days ago.
Sometimes when I respond to people's messages, I can't see their face, but I can see that they are shocked.
He was asking me, he said that his wife is really misbehaving.
And it's affecting him how to go and preach and taste.
And I responded and said, since when, since when has your wife been your source of anointed?
or the source of your grace.
I mean, since when?
I mean, I don't understand your problem.
I can't link the two things.
That a misbehaving wife means that your ministry must go down.
I said, if it goes down, you have allowed it to go down.
I said, brother, if it goes down, you have permitted it based on your faith.
That's based on your lifestyle and your thinking.
you feel, you feel that you are the one who feels that you must but all means have their wife with a shiny face and lipstick.
Stand with like how, how Christmas service is here that your wife is standing next to you.
I, I love to wish all of you a very merry Christmas and a very prosperous new year as we are entering into the new year.
May God's blessings and kindness keep you and be with you.
My husband and I have been praying for you all year round.
Meanwhile, she's been in the car with him.
They've driven about an hour and 20 minutes.
She's still said a word to him.
What?
She's still said a word.
When he asked her a question, she makes sounds.
How can how can your ministry be dependent on such a person?
I mean how?
How?
And who set an app and made it so important like that?
Because I can answer that question because some people
in a certain era that we all looked up to because if you follow church history, church history is like in waves, especially over different continents.
When you go to a certain continent, they promoted, they really promoted, they really promoted the husband and wife picture.
All their magazines, calendars,
postcards, Christmas cards, everything, everything, everything this, everything this has fun with some glossy red lips, ladies.
Shining, yeah.
Yeah.
And of course, and of course, even if you are not teaching something, what you are doing, people are watching.
So they've also thought that that's what it is, that's what it means.
That's why this dear brother of mine, he's been some days now but I'm sure he's still shocked at my response.
He's still shocked.
I'm sure he perhaps even thinks that I'm anti-marriage.
But I'm not anti-marriage.
I've been married for over 26 years now and I'm saying that's over a quarter of a century.
receive it remember when you're also preaching that you also say that like I've been mindful over a quarter of a century when you say 26 years it's small they all say quarter of a century then they'll say wow do they even ask how old is he?
no worry I'm married at 13
So now let me continue preaching.
So perhaps
As we adjust ourselves to cross over into the new year.
Maybe.
What God is saying to you.
What God is saying to you is to change your life.
Which means that change your faith level.
Change your faith level.
And you will see more of God.
You experience more of God.
You will have more.
You will have more of God in you.
When you are dealing with God.
God is not someone you are relating with.
You take out a calculator.
you know, I've given this to God.
I have need to preserve this.
I give this to God.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
Someone said to me that he got saved by the flesh of your teeth.
He said, if you had entered into that zoo.
I said, because God laughs me.
That's why he saved me.
He saved me on time.
Saved why I don't time.
Yeah.
Saved me right on time.
He said, don't you think I got saved right on time?
But these days, the standard is even now.
You have to get saved before you go to secondary school.
Or even primary school.
As long as you come out of your mother's womb, you must be saved.
Yes.
Yeah.
It's true.
Look at the life that Paul recommends.
Galatians chapter two.
That's the life.
That's the life he's recommended.
Your life is your faith.
And I'm saying to us today that everybody has, everybody has a life.
Meaning that everybody has
some faith, a level of faith that they are living.
When you see, when you see a person who is a missionary, he has some faith.
A missionary, he's left everything.
He's left the comfort of his home, comfort of his environment.
He said, I am a missionary, I'm gone.
It's a level of faith.
Don't think, don't think, I keep telling you, when you see somebody doing something and the person is still doing it, don't turn that person
has been exempted from some troubles and some problems.
Yes.
Don't tell the person who has gone on missions doesn't mess, doesn't mess conflicts.
Yeah.
Even though sometimes they'll tell that there's conflicts everywhere.
No, no, no, no.
Sometimes when you say, tell them, don't lie.
We admire you.
There's conflicts not everywhere.
I beg you.
They might be cornmeal.
There's something made out of corn but not flakes.
It's not become flaky but it's in another state.
It's another state.
You add sugar.
It's like ball sweet corn.
Sometimes you peel the corn as it says that you boil it.
It's also it's also a cornmeal but it's not flaky.
No, Gary is unmade from corn.
Brother.
I mean.
I don't know what type of Gary have in your house, but something.
People have been eating things.
They don't know what it's made of.
I tell you.
Even say Cerellac or something like that.
But Gary.
Say Cerellac.
So they point him at home for me, okay?
Point him at home.
And take a picture.
Send me the picture of him wet.
Galatians chapter 2.
We are closing soon.
Have you learned something?
Can you see that your life is your faith?
Your faith is actually your life.
The life that you are living now is your faith.
Up to the level of faith you have permitted yourself to go to.
That's the level you are at.
That's the level you are.
That's one of the dangerous things in life, is to have, I know this may sound a bit unorthodox to most of you, is to have a vision, or a plan, or a target.
I mean, you are usually told you have a vision.
What's your vision?
Goals.
Yeah, your goal.
Yes.
This guy is a good picture.
Because, you see, because, as soon as you achieve anything you set out to achieve, you switch off.
Yes.
That's the danger of having goals envisioned.
As soon as you hit that mark, backsliding starts.
So if you've been following God,
You be following God for a beloved.
Or for a job.
No, I like to use beloved because I have seen many people backslide after they got a beloved.
I've seen several.
Not just if you know one or two, I've seen several.
But when I see it, I smile to myself inside my head.
So you can see it on my face.
Because I can tell that to all along this all you are looking for.
You shall have said it right from the where it go.
Who would have organized it for you?
If this is what satisfies you, this is what satisfies you.
This is what takes you out of the battle of serving God and living for God.
It's a beloved.
If your father can find one for you, you don't need to go.
If your father can get you one, your father can talk to his friend.
He said, say to his friend that I mean, how?
My son, how?
I mean, why not?
So I was asking me the age of one of my daughters once.
I didn't even know where he was.
I mean, he caught me a bit off guard.
because my mind was so I thought oh he was just asking about you know how people ask your children how are they so how did this one how this one says so he asked me why did when I mentioned he said oh my son he said oh my son is also this age and I said I said brother brother
Brother, relax.
Relax.
But the truth is, why not?
I mean, why not?
You have a son, I have a daughter, why not?
In this day and age, I mean, why not?
Which one is safer?
It's always safer where you know and who you know.
Or you didn't know that?
Because you like new people.
It's because you're a child.
You don't like the people who have been around that you know their problems, you know their weaknesses, you know, that's, that's, that's what is good.
The person that you know, you know her problems.
You know, you know, you know that by thirteenth of the month, she's grumpy.
It's, it's, you're safer.
But then when you see a new girl, you want a new girl.
I'm not a fan of new girls and new people in the church.
I like the old, old metuselus.
Old Melchizedek.
Yes.
They are the ones we can talk to.
They are the ones we know.
They are the ones we can correct.
They are the ones when we say sit, don't sit.
They are the ones when we say, do not put powder on your face again.
You see, don't come.
No powder.
That's your child.
That's a daughter.
Yes.
What else?
I mean, what else?
What else can you describe such a person?
But they don't put that thing on your face.
It makes you look twice your age.
When you take it off, then we all say that, oh, she's young.
All this while we thought she was her mother's family last month.
The last born of her mother's family.
Or people didn't know that that thing makes you look older.
No, it makes you look older.
It adds to your age.
Because it was originally designed for older people to cover up some things for older people.
Yes.
From a certain age, you are kind of allowed to use it because some things are there that you need to fight.
You need wisdom keys to battle and to overcome.
But when you are young, you don't have those things.
So when you put that thing on your face, we all assume that you must be in that age bracket.
Our mother's younger sister, yes.
The last born of the family.
The last born.
Last born.
And we sit down.
What was I telling you?
Your faith is your life, isn't it?
I was saying something.
wait for the new old new girls to become old girls watch them carefully relax control yourself and let her become old because you don't know how long she'll be in the church for before that you've gone to follow some that is even taking you out of the church
Before she's taking you out of the church, you see yourself a man, macho man, you go to the gym every day.
But you are weak within.
Your body is big, but the inner man is like a shrimp.
Yes.
Forever she's taking you out of the church.
Oh, you forgotten something.
I mean, not a brother, Samson.
I mean, Samson in the Bible.
Samson in the Bible.
Sit down.
Let me preach.
Yes.
Samson in the Bible.
The girl was just using her voice to just control him.
You know, this, this you don't like, if you read your, but if you find your quiet time and the girl tells you, you don't love me, you say, hey.
Hey.
I just read about Samson.
This is how the Delilahs talk.
Yes.
You don't love me.
Don't like me.
You don't call me.
You don't text me.
I've not heard from you.
All of us Christmases, you told me I will be going.
I thought we'll go for dinners every day.
I think I think you don't like me.
You're not interested in me.
You don't talk to me enough.
You see what she was saying to him?
I'm sure she was singing to him.
And if you really love me.
Come on.
say this is I don't feel anything in my fingers.
Let alone my toes.
I don't feel anything.
Come on, Samson.
If you love me, come on, Samson.
Do something.
Come on, Samson.
Come on.
When she says something, when she says, come on, Sammy.
Come on, Sammy.
Come on, let it show.
My toes are frozen.
How can thou say I love thee when thine heart is not with me?
How can you say you love me?
Sammy, how can you say you love me?
The last time I heard from was on the 25th.
We've gone through 26, 27, 28.
Today is 29.
And you say you love me.
Sammy.
Sammy will be melting.
It's all saying me, that is how I laugh.
Accept it.
That's how I laugh.
That's how I am.
That is how I am.
Galatians chapter two.
People, you like stories, isn't it?
You like stories.
You really like stories.
I can tell you like stories.
But I'm talking to you about your level of faith.
I believe 2020, your faith level is going higher.
You are going to fight to go higher in your faith.
Higher in serving God.
Higher in living for God.
Higher in working for God.
You have the heart and the time for God.
You don't come with cooking bull stories.
Because you have time for other things.
You have time for other things.
You don't have time for this.
You have time for that.
Don't think we are children.
We were born long time ago.
Long time ago in Bethlehem.
So the holy Bible says.
Okay, Galatians 2, 20.
We didn't come to chat to sing.
Listen to Paul's level.
You see Paul is helping us to understand that your faith is your life.
Yes.
Your faith is your life.
He said, I am crucified with Christ.
Nevertheless, I live.
Yet not I.
But Christ, Christ liveeth in me.
And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave
everything you see me doing.
Every decision you see me making.
Every travel you see me traveling.
Every move that I make.
I am making it.
I am making it by my faith in the Son of God.
The life that I'm living is by the faith in the Son of God.
My life that you see now.
He said, the life that you see me living now is by that.
In other words, it's according
according to or in mathematics will say with respect to yes with respect to my faith my faith so as my my faith appreciates my life also appreciates as my as my faith depreciates my life the quality of my life is also depreciating with respect to God that is that is
life.
When you are differentiating this life, it will be D. L. D. G. Yes.
A change, a change in life is according to your change in God.
Or D. L. D. F. Yes.
That is change in life with respect to change in faith.
I hope you can understand that.
Yes.
As as he drifts towards God.
Drifts towards God.
That is delta gene.
He's moving towards God.
There's change.
Delta means change.
Have you seen that signal?
Did you do much?
Yes.
That triangle.
It's called delta.
This delta gene.
That is a move towards God.
Or if you like away from God, whatever angle you are measuring it from.
But
change towards God.
It changed.
So, I'm saying that in 2020, there has to be a change in your life that is delta L over delta G. Because change towards God is the same as your change in your faith.
Yes.
The LDG or the LDF.
I love it.
faith in the Son of God by the faith and I'm putting it I am and I'm also putting it to you.
I put it to you that the life that you also live now, you live it according to your faith and I like to insert the word level.
You live according to the level of faith you have in the Son of God.
I put that one to you.
I can sit down for you to defend yourself now.
Nice.
The time you have for
Your brains that you use for God.
Your money that you spend on the things of God.
It's according to your faith.
If you don't have faith, why would you give money?
It would mean that you're throwing your money away.
I don't give my money to certain causes.
To me it's also a waste of money.
But when it gets to church things, then I charge.
I said no.
I can't.
I must be in it.
Because my life, my life is according to my faith in God.
Is God who has made me who I am?
Is God who has given me what I have?
Is God who has blessed me to be who I am?
It is God.
Everything is God, God, God.
How can I reduce God to nothing?
my life.
So, as you, your life, the life that you are living, it's your faith.
That is your faith.
You can't analyze how much time you have for God.
That's your faith in God.
How devoted are you to God?
These young men, I know if I, I know if I meet them,
They will tell me stories.
And I wouldn't be saying much.
They will feel they are having their way.
Yes.
Because they are young.
But when I start and look, they are not there.
They don't have, they don't believe that coming to start will do anything meaningful to them.
They don't believe it.
They don't.
That's why they don't do it.
Yeah.
They don't.
Wow.
So you have to battle to change your faith levels.
So my final point to you is that faith is a fight.
You have to fight.
You have to fight to win and overcome and change your faith levels.
Faith is to fight.
First Timothy 612.
He says that fight, the good fight of faith.
You see when you stop fighting it means that you have stopped having faith.
Yes.
As long as there's no ongoing battle.
Meaning that you are not expecting any victory.
It means that you've put your faith on suspension.
Because faith is to fight.
Faith is to fight.
You see, a lazy person, a lazy person is someone who hasn't got faith.
Yeah.
A lazy person.
Inactive people.
Late-backed people.
Slow, dull, non-progressive people.
They don't have faith.
Because the faith people are the ones who try things.
They try.
They knock on doors.
And they try.
I've been recent, we just had elections.
The person who initiated the elections is the person who won.
You see, he must, I kept saying, I kept asking myself, I mean weeks or months before, I kept asking myself, why is this man so sure of elections?
Why does he keep saying that let's go, let's ask the people.
When he comes, this is brexit thing.
He brings it and then they throw it out or they say, okay, no, we bring this.
We don't want it.
Then he'll say, he'll say, look, let's stop, let's stop all these things.
Let's go and boot.
And all he was pushing for that he wants the majority.
So nobody will be blocking him when he brings the things.
But when I said, when the results came, I said, this man, he must have some faith that when I go, I'll win.
When I go, I'll win.
So he said, let's do it.
The people, the people who are acting like comic relief.
So stop talking and debates in the house talk.
They don't come up with any idea but they'll say what they don't like.
You see there are people like that.
They'll say what they don't like but they never say what they want.
Yes.
They'll criticize everything, everything.
When the choir sings, they'll criticize.
Dancing stars dance, they'll criticize.
Somebody gives a testimony, they'll criticize.
Somebody says they'll criticize.
Everybody, they themselves will never lift a finger to do anything.
You're preaching.
I'm preaching.
Criticize everybody, don't do anything.
Don't even criticize preaching.
But they won't preach, too.
They won't preach.
don't you tell the pastor that go on holiday?
I'll preach for the season.
I'll preach for the pastor.
Go on holiday.
Go take your family.
Your family is also important.
You're always with us.
We're always texting you 24 seven.
You're always there talking to win this pastor.
We don't we don't even know when you talk to your children, when you talk to your wife.
We don't even know.
Pastor, go on holiday.
So we will also preach.
You see, church is quiet.
He said he would like to preach.
Yes.
There are people who criticize everything, but they have no faith to do anything.
But if you have faith, there will be action.
That's what the scripture says, sir.
Show me your faith without works and I will show you mine by my works.
They say faith without works is dead.
There's nothing like faith if there's no fight, no battle.
The person who believes to pass his exams, the person who studies.
The person who feels that I'm going to fail.
It is difficult.
I can't do it.
It's very, very hard.
This time that is very, very hard.
It's a person who does nothing.
She's always sleeping, always giving excuses.
The lazy man will say there's a lion in the street.
The diligent man will say, there's a lion there.
Give me a gun.
That's how to overcome lions.
There's a lion there, but give me a gun.
I'm still going.
I have to go.
The lazy one said, there's a lion.
There's a lion in the street.
We can't go anywhere.
We can't do anything.
Cotton is working.
The person believes he can pass.
The person who studies.
The person who can become rich, the person who works hard.
Yes.
So you see poor people are always criticizing rich people.
That they don't give, they are stingy.
Because you don't know how to get wealth.
That's why you say somebody should share their wealth with you.
You don't know how it comes by.
You're preaching.
That's why you want somebody's, that's why you want somebody's something that he has worked for.
But you know that rich or wealthy people seem to appreciate gifts more than poor people.
If you give a rich person a pound, he would even ask you, are you sure?
Are you sure?
It's like, why?
No, no, no, no, you don't have to.
No, it's okay.
No, this, I mean it's like, it wouldn't become, it wouldn't become like a problem.
But give a poor person a pound.
say all this talk to you.
He's just a pound.
He's just a pound that he gave.
That's that's how they talk.
Just a pound I mean.
Just a pound.
Yes.
All this deal.
All this is money.
You'll see all this is money and his riches.
He's just just a pound that he gave.
Because you don't know how to make a pound.
That's how you complain about a pound.
You say, are you sure?
Like this Christmas, if you give a wealthy person even a bar of chocolate, say, are you sure?
Why?
You don't have to.
No, no, it's just my dumb thing.
You see, all these guys, the person wants to say, hmm, this is what he brought.
Just one bar of chocolate.
people don't appreciate much because they don't know how things are generated and how things are done and things are created.
You don't appreciate anything.
Compliant about everything.
And those are people who don't have faith because if you have faith, you move, you work, you try.
I mean, you will try.
You will find a way to overcome the problem.
You will find a way.
to have the life of faith, you must be fighting.
So, in other words, the level of fights and the amount of fights that you have in your life explains the level of faith that you have.
And the number of things that you are believing God for.
Center leader, you don't have a fight for growth.
You don't have a fight.
You don't have a fight for growth that you're always sorting things out, driving people.
Let's do this.
Let's do that.
Let's try this.
You don't have faith for it.
I mean, what pastor will you be if you don't want your church to grow?
Church not growing means souls not being saved.
There should be battles all the time.
Let's do this.
Let's change this.
Let's go.
Always tension.
And when you have faith, you enjoy tension.
You actually enjoy tension.
You actually don't like a stress-free life.
You will not call it stress.
You will call it a good fight of faith.
You'll be very, very happy that something is going on, something is being done.
Always notice people who don't like pressure for anything.
Sometimes a little bit of pressure comes and says, he's too much.
He's too much.
But they can take pressure from a girl or from a boy.
Because that's where their faith is.
Yes.
Pressure for church work.
No pressure for soul winning.
No pressure to perfect things, to do things properly.
No.
Pressure for a boy.
Yes.
money.
Pressure for money.
Yes.
Pressure for first class.
Pressure for soul winning.
No.
What's that song that you go dance with?
Something?
No.
You want to go home?
You want to church growth?
No.
You
You want to work for the Lord.
You want to work for a girl.
You want to work for a boy.
You sacrifice including our souls and our salvation for a boy.
For a boy to keep coming.
We just have entertainment.
Yes.
Yeah.
Entertainment.
Entertainment in a boy.
Why is this finishing this course?
Yes.
He will finish.
He will marry you because he would want someone who also has a degree.
Did you hear him talking about you?
Did you hear him?
That boy.
That you think likes you more than I like you.
Did you hear him talking about you?
How stupid you are.
Did you hear him?
Did you hear him describing you to his friends?
How an idiot you are.
Yes.
When it's finished, of course, you want someone who can work.
You are failed everything.
You can't work.
You are even spending even two minutes with you.
You block your number.
Who else?
In our time we used to ask our friends, hey Charlie, so this girl, how?
Do you know what the guys, those bad boys, do you know what they used to say?
They say, oh Charlie, they take amdou course.
They take amdou, they take amdou the course.
Do you know what I'm saying?
I'm using her for the course.
Yes, instead of going to the gym to to release tension It's I go to her that she helps me relax the one I come back I can concentrate It was all true by time they get to find out you see that's though.
There's a problem always took up for people who are always ready to come out with you Because they want out
You can say, no, I'm graduating soon.
I can't carry this baggage with me.
How can I introduce this airhead to my parents?
This is what I have brought.
So in 1st Timothy 6 verse 12, are you understanding my preaching or you don't understand my preaching?
There's nothing new under the sun.
I've seen types of people when I was a student.
As I'm a pastor, I can see again.
I can say, well, this girl, she'll finish with nothing.
Yeah, she'll end with nothing.
She'll end with nothing.
And if I hear she ask nothing, I won't be surprised.
I'll not even blast her or say, I won't be surprised because she didn't go there to do the course.
She went there to entertain.
Oh, yes.
And the guys, they love it.
They love, they love, they love the idiot girls.
You will never be one.
Oh, they really like it.
Can they just come and tell us their stories?
All the time, they just come and tell us their stories.
In the United States, they come and tell us their stories.
They come and sit there and tell us their stories and laugh.
And they can really laugh at girls.
They used to come and say to each other, girl, be like this.
So when they do the thing that they start, it makes like they convolve themselves.
He be like, he be like, he get, he be like, he get epilepsy.
a few minutes later, you see, there she comes.
She's coming to see him.
And then we'll all be there.
I said, what we say?
I said, hello.
Don't be afraid.
When we say, when we're in our heads, we say, that's an epileptic patient.
Oh, make her feel straight and smile.
Oh, hello.
Hi.
All you have to do is just tell your friend that.
I'll catch you later, I'll see you there.
Epilepsy has come.
I hope people are becoming wise.
Yes.
never been used to do some of his course.
You have to use yourself to do your course.
Instead of studying, you have to be cooking for somebody's son.
And he has also received student's finance.
Is that what you call it?
Student finance.
Yes, he's sitting in his bank account like that.
So, your fight reveals your faith.
My final comment for today is that faith is your secret weapon.
Yes, hide it in your back pocket.
As you are moving in life, people will be wondering.
You see, people will be asking you soon in your life that what keeps you going?
What keeps you going?
Your secret weapon.
Do you know people that you've been wondering what keeps them going?
How come they are always alive for God?
It is faith in God.
Faith in God covers everything.
It's what we fight with.
It's what we battle with.
It's what keeps us moving.
We keep believing.
Keep believing.
It's going to get better.
It's going to get well.
Keep doing more for God.
Keep giving yourself more and more to God.
It's a fight because there will be things to discourage you.
When you see something discouraging you from going to church, serving God.
working for God.
Giving offerings in church.
Using your intelligence in church.
When you see those, those logic and reasoning coming to you that stops having God.
You know another battle has been called.
Fight the good fight of faith.
You win.
God bless you.
Stand to your feet.
How many of you want your faith level to rise?
The scripture says that faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God.
This year, this coming year, be an addict to listening to the word of God.
Let the podcast be active and alive on your phone, on your tablet.
Faith comes by hearing.
It is the word of God that will increase your faith.
When you don't know about the word of God, you won't have faith.
You won't have faith.
You won't have.
That's why you will have more faith in a relationship with somebody who doesn't like you.
Yes, because you don't, you don't know the word.
So your life, your life is showing your faith.
Your life is showing your faith.
I've seen wonderful members who have more confidence in some bad boy than in their pastor.
The pastor is giving good advice.
They believe more what Darcilibor is saying and doing to them.
You shall escape all these foolishness.
I say you will escape all these foolishness.
It's a fight.
Fight and win.
Back to the win.
And do well.
Hear the word.
Keep hearing the word.
Keep soaking the word.
Your faith level goes higher.
Close your eyes and pray for yourself, my lord.
Thank you for bringing me this far.
Thank you for bringing me this far, lord.
My faith level shall increase, shall rise.
As we enter the new year, lord.
New levels of faith.
Pray for yourself.
Everything you cannot overcome in 2019, you will overcome it in 2020.
Grace is increasing.
Wisdom is coming.
Strength is coming.
You will.
you'll be stronger you'll be stronger you'll be better you'll be stronger you'll be better you'll be stronger you will be better pray for yourself pray
stronger and better.
Stronger and better.
Stronger in God.
Better in God.
Stronger in the things of God.
Better in the things of God.
More faith in God.
More than anything else.
Faith in God.
faith in God faith in God faith in God more time for God more time for God more time for the things of God
Yes, Lord.
Faith is rising.
Your secret weapon.
Your faith level is increasing.
You see more of God.
More of Him.
More of His power.
More of His grace.
More of His deliverance.
More of His messes.
More.
Zibaria, Saboleipa, Sabodema, Sabokeve, Sabodito,
Thank you father.
Now you know what?
For a minute or two, I want you to really take time and say thank you to
Thank him for January.
Thank him for February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, all the way to December.
Thank him.
There are things that you will remember that he did for you.
That he saved you from.
That he delivered you from.
You want to mention it and say thank you to God.
Thank you to him.
From the bottom of your heart, mean it.
talk to him and say thank you.
Thank him.
Begin to speak to him now.
Just saying thank you to him.
Not asking for anything but thanking him.
Thanking him.
That he came through for you.
He saved you.
He delivered you.
He blessed you.
When
A spiritual strength kept you.
Something kept you.
You don't even know how you made it.
Several times you felt you were down and out.
But here you are today.
Still believing.
Still trusting in God.
Still hoping in God.
It's victory.
It's God.
It's God who did it.
It's God who gave it to you.
It's God who did it for you.
Thanking Him.
The new job you got.
The jobs you got.
The new things that happened in your life.
The new things.
Your graduation.
The exams you passed.
The things you went through.
Thank Him for it.
The beloved.
Your wedding.
Thank Him for it.
The gift of speaking in tongues.
Thank Him.
He gave it to you.
He did it for you.
He did it.
Jesus did it.
God did it.
In 2019 He did it.
He did it for you.
Thank Him.
Remember them.
Remember the things.
They did it for you.
They did it.
Ah, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never.
Yes.
We are grateful.
You increased us.
You blessed us.
You saved many, Lord.
Thank you, Lord.
Come on, lift up your two hands.
You increased us.
You blessed us.
You gave us our desires.
Yes Lord.
We are not disappointed.
We are not broken Lord.
We are not disappointed in you.
All by Him.
Thank you.
Thank you Father.
Thank you Lord.
Thank you.
Sing it one more time.
I just want it there
hearts full of gratitude and thanks Lord.
Receive our thanks today.
Receive our sacrifices of thanksgiving.
We say thank you Lord.
Thank you for all you did for us throughout the year Lord.
Thank you for all you did for our loved ones Lord throughout the year Lord.
Thank you Lord.
Thank you for everything.
Thank you for your grace.
Thank you for your mercy.
Thank you for your mighty and strong arm that kept us.
That kept us believing.
Kept us fighting.
Kept us moving on Lord.
Thank you Lord.
We're saying thank you Lord.
These are grateful hearts coming to you today.
Receive, receive our hearts.
You are grateful.
And we say thank you.
Thank you even for 2020 Lord.
Thank you for all that you have in store for us.
All that you would do.
All that you are going to do.
All that you have prepared for us Lord.
Thank you.
We say thank you Lord.
We say thank you.
Especially for our faith Lord.
That we didn't lose faith.
We didn't backslide.
We didn't fall.
Still believing in you and believing in Jesus.
We are grateful Lord.
We are grateful Lord for that seed you've put in us.
Thank you Father in the name of Jesus.
Now while every eyes closed and every heart is bowed down to say a prayer with you.
We are here today.
Somebody invited you to church.
Well you've been coming to church but deep in your heart
You feel far from Jesus.
You want to say to the other pastor, please pray with me.
Please pray with me.
I need Jesus in my life.
I want Jesus to be the Lord of my life.
I'm a sinner.
I want forgiveness of all my sins.
I want to be washed with the blood of Jesus.
Pastor, please pray with me.
I want to give my life to Jesus today.
If you are here today like that, you want me to pray with you while every eyes closed and every head is bound.
Very quickly lift up your right hand and I'll pray with you wherever you are.
Pastor, pray with me.
I want to give my life to Jesus.
Just your right hand.
God bless you.
I can see your hand there.
Keep it up.
Lift up.
You also want to join in.
Pastor, pray with me.
I need Jesus.
Very quickly.
Just your right hand and I'll pray with you.
and I'll pray with you.
God bless you and I'll pray with you.
I need Jesus in my life.
I only give my life to Jesus today.
Just your right hand.
Yes, God bless you.
Give it up.
I'll pray with you.
I need Jesus in my life.
I need Jesus.
I want to end this year saved a new beginning with Jesus in my life.
Just your right hand and I'll pray with you.
Just your right hand.
Whoever you are standing, just your right hand.
I'll pray with you.
God bless you.
You can see your hands.
see your hands.
You also want to join in.
Pastor, pray with me.
I need Jesus just to write and I'll pray with you.
If you have your hand lifted up, I want you to do one more thing for me.
I want to come to me right here in the front.
Come out of your seat and come.
Yes, come.
You didn't even lift up your hands, but you want me to pray with you.
You want to give your life to Jesus.
Come as well.
Come all the way.
Come.
Come from wherever you are.
Make that walk to Jesus.
Yes, come to Jesus, come and join us.
Walk come to Jesus.
Walk come, come.
Come from wherever you are.
The middle, the sides, the back.
Wherever you are, come.
We are waiting for you.
There's room.
Come, just a prayer.
Come to Jesus today, come.
Yes, come.
Even if you did lift up your hands, it doesn't matter.
You want to come to Jesus.
Come to Him.
Come.
Come to Jesus.
God bless you.
Today is your day.
Come to Jesus.
Come.
I'm waiting for you.
Come to Jesus.
Come.
Enter the new year with Jesus as the Lord of your life.
Yes.
Come.
Thank you Jesus.
Close your eyes, let's pray.
Let me pray with you.
First, I want you to say this prayer after me.
And everybody in this hall help us as we say this prayer together.
Those of you in front say it meaningfully.
Say heavenly Father.
I am a sinner.
Please forgive me of all my sins.
I believe in Jesus.
I believe Jesus is alive today.
I believe Jesus died for my sins.
And he rose up on the third day.
Please wash me with the blood of Jesus.
Say it out loud.
Say, Lord Jesus, please come into my heart.
Be the Lord of my life.
I repent of all my sins.
I am sorry for all my mistakes.
Heavenly Father, please write my name in the book of life.
Thank you, Father.
for accepting me today and making me a child of yours.
In Jesus' name.
I'll say in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Now, let me pray for you, Father.
I pray for these precious ones, Lord.
Let their lives be blessed, Lord.
Let them see good life, Lord.
Better life for God.
Thank you for salvation.
Thank you for your help.
Thank you, Father.
Bless them.
Let this new life be meaningful and be real to them, Lord.
Help them.
Help them to serve you.
Help them to know you.
Help them to have a deeper relationship with you.
I cancel every mark covenant of the enemy with their souls.
I declare it canceled today by the name of Jesus.
Thank you for the blood of Jesus that covers the world.
May they be established in your house.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
Say a big amen.
God bless you.
Please receive this gift.
God come to Jesus.
God bless you.
God give them a mighty, mighty, mighty, mighty hand clap.
Are the close of service.
All of you in the books, please come to my right hand side here.
Right here, my right.
Can you see, are you looking?
Yes, just gonna sit here for just a couple of minutes.
We'll have a brief word with you before you go home.
God bless you and welcome to Jesus.
Come for them as they go back to their seats.
God bless you.
It's time to receive communion.
Take Eve, this is my body.
That was broken for you.
Pray for yourself.
It's your last communion for the year.
Drink, this is my blood.
It's a seed of hope.
That was shed for you.
A seed of blessing.
A seed of great grace.
Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life.
Yes.
For my flesh is meat indeed.
And my blood is drinking deep The cup of blessing which we bless Be praying for yourself Be praying for yourself The bread which we break It's the communion of the body of Christ Oh, this is the meal The holy meal of God
It will sustain you.
It will give you life when I see the blood.
Elijah needed supernatural strength Oh Prophet Elijah, take this meal and eat It will sustain you for forty days and forty nights When I see the blood
for giving us this blessed opportunity to have this meal again at the end of the year Lord.
Thank you for the victories of 2019.
Thank you Father that whatever could not overcome us in 2019 will not overcome us in 2020 Lord.
Thank you O God that whatever we're not able to overcome in 2019
By the blood, we shall overcome it in 2020, Lord.
This meal, oh God, shall be strength, shall be healing, shall be supernatural strength, supernatural provision, supernatural seed that shall grow, increase in our bodies, Lord.
Thank you for victories.
Thank you for your blessings.
Thank you for miracles.
We eat it for healing.
And we drink this blood for a miracle, Lord.
Let your supernatural power take over our bodies, take over our minds, take over our souls, take over our lives, O God.
And we see supernatural power in manifestation as we eat the body of Christ.
and drink his blood.
Father, I bless every bread and every cup and I declare this is the body of Christ and this is the blood of Jesus.
Thank you Lord for this great privilege.
The body of Christ, the body of Jesus Christ.
Eat it.
I feel like sharing the body with you.
Kalyan.
The body of Christ.
The body.
Eat it.
The body of Christ.
The body of Jesus Christ.
The body of Jesus.
body.
Wow.
The body called Jesus, isn't it?
The body of Jesus.
To have the rest.
The blood of Jesus.
Father, thank you.
Thank you for the seeds of victory.
The seeds of supernatural power.
May we see miracles.
May we see your power.
May we see your healing.
May we see unexpected victories, Lord.
That is miracles.
May we experience miracles, Lord.
Thank you, Lord.
Father, we pray for miracles.
We pray for the supernatural.
Let the supernatural be manifest in our lives.
Let it be common in our messed Lord.
Make yourself known in our messed and in our lives Lord.
I pray for the supernatural Lord.
Let us see your supernatural power.
The waves and the moves and the
of the Holy Spirit in our lives and in this church, Lord.
Thank you for the blood.
Thank you for supernatural strength.
Every weakness is replaced with strength.
Amen.
In Jesus' name.
God bless you.
Take your seat.
It is done.
Whatever you were thinking about, I feel like telling you that it has been solved.
Yes.
It is done.
God has done it.
You know, I promised you, I promised you a song by
receive it as a prophecy to you.
Yes.
Receive it as a prophecy.
God is speaking to you.
God is blessing you.
Be comforted by it.
Receive it.
And God will do great things for you.
2020.
Be a beautiful year for you.
Thank you so much Bishop Richard for such a powerful and timely message.
Remember you can listen to this message again and many others on the First Love Church podcast.
Be sure to join us for our Watch Night service on Tuesday the 31st of December at Twickenham Stadium.
Until then, have a blessed week.
We hope that you've been blessed by this message.
For more information, follow us on social media.
Search for First Love Church London on Facebook and YouTube and First Love UK on Twitter and Instagram.
Have a blessed week.